Student Name: Riya Gupta
Course: SOEN 6841, Software Project Management
Journal URL: https://github.com/Riyaguptacse/soen6841f24/blob/main/journal2
Dates Range of activities: Chapter 4,5
Date of the journal: 05/10/2024
Key Concepts Learned:
I studied different risks associated with the project, the impact of the risks on the project, and the strategy to tackle the risk like Stakeholders in software projects bear a great deal of risk because their interests depend on the project's success or failure. The designated project manager is then responsible for taking on the risk once the project has been approved. Every project task and activity has a specific portion of danger. Risks that could negatively impact a project are present throughout its implementation and can be found everywhere.Therefore, the project manager needs to make sure he has a solid risk management plan in place before beginning execution in order to address any potential risks. Any risk could have an effect on the budget, timeline, or quality. Thus, each risk needs to be classified using the nature of its influence on any of these project elements.The project manager can determine the expense and effort needed to address each risk. The project manager might make adjustments to the project plan based on the expense and effort needed to address potential hazards. This way, in the event that a risk materialises, the project manager can prevent the project's budget or timeline from ballooning out of control timetable from the producer,Throughout the project, quality assurance procedures must be guaranteed in order to address issues that may affect quality. Every work product produced for the project needs to have its quality examined. Reworking the work output can eliminate defects
.Also studied about configuration management, parts of configuration management, and why there is a need for configuration management. Numerous iterations of work products are created on software projects as a result of defect fixing, unfinished business, change requests, etc. In software projects, configuration management is crucial to ensuring that all of these work product versions are appropriately maintained.Ensure that all of these work items and project papers are accessible to members of the project team.Source code builds in particular are quite sensitive to version management. The source code build is the repository where each developer adds, after developing, his source code. These arrivals can be completed multiple times by every developer during the day. When a developer checks in source code, if there are errors, the build will fail.
Application in Real Projects:
There are many scenarios in real life for risk management, for example: When an e-commerce company opens a new online marketplace, it has risks related to supply chain management, scalability, fraud, and payment processing. By using load testing, dependable supplier partnerships, and AI-driven fraud detection we can  handle this.Other example for real life project is when the bank is developing an online banking platform, they face cybersecurity threats, user authentication failures, and regulatory changes. Risk management involves continuous monitoring, proactive mitigation, and contingency planning for potential cyberattacks.
The application of configuration management in cloud-based applications in real life project, such as SaaS solutions, involves ensuring seamless deployment of updates without downtime and managing configurations for multiple environments. Solutions include infrastructure such as Code (IaC), continuous deployment pipelines, and environment segregation.
Peer Interactions:
This week I interacted with my peers to discuss their thoughts regarding risk management. We discuss various risks that are associated with the project, and how we can tackle these risks. Also took active participation in the lecture to discuss and have a clear understanding of the key concepts.
Challenges Faced:
I didnt face challenges this week as I had a conversation with the professor how can work on my lectures and how can i study these topics again and just followed professor suggestion and did the things that way. 
Personal development activities:
Participating in different university events help me  with the theoretical knowledge and hands-on experience needed to manage risks and configurations in software projects in an efficient manner, leading to better project outcomes.
Goals for the Next Week:
For next week, I am planning to study Project Planning as it will help me also with the project. From next week, I am planning to spend at least 30 minutes everyday to revise whatever is coming in the midterm as i dont want anything to be left that i havent studied before midterm.Also, our group is planning to have discussion regarding project as well as the topics for the midterm.
