Student Name: Riya Gupta
Course: SOEN 6841, Software Project Management
Journal URL:https://github.com/Riyaguptacse/soen6841journal/blob/main/journal%204
Dates Range of activities: 02 November 2024 - 09 November 2024
Date of the journal: 09/11/2024
Key Concepts learned: 
This week’s class session focused on important topics such as Project Closure, Software Lifecycle Management and Requirement Gathering. With a well-defined concept of Planning Closure emphasising on project deliverables, source code management and archiving measured metrics data. Software Lifecycle models focuses on software models e.g. SCRUM, Extreme Programming.Requirement Gathering on the other hand talks about the process of collecting, analyzing and managing customer requirements data as a systematic process. Discussing on Functional and Non-functional requirements it talks about Security, Performance, Usability and Compatibility adhering to the project goals and the way it is carried out.
Application in Real Projects:
This week’s topic on project closure and software development lifecycle models speaks of a meaningful impact in real-world projects. Ensuring the deliverables on time archiving the project data for future projects plays a key role in the software industry. Again, differentiating between Waterfall model and Iterative models for project stability is very important in order to ensure a proper pattern of project running in the industry.Effective requirement gathering is also very necessary for matching the clients expectations in project delivering. Some challenges for suppose dealing with continuous changes and maintaining a proper timeline during project closure might lead to not handling the project data documentation properly. CMMI concept is extremely helpful.
Peer Interactions: 
Discussing with my project group on our project, I discussed on the Project Closure process and about the documentation of data which could benefit for the next projects. Speaking of Quality Gates we discussed how doing quality checks can help us to know the issues early and develop a planning. We gained key insights on how to be more efficient and accurate on project closure and requirements management.While discussing the topic on Quality Gates, there were concerns about how to maintain a quality check system for a complex project. Also, during the project there can be great trouble if the client is requesting frequent changes to the system so it is very important to have a well defined structure since the beginning of the project.Engaging with classmates allowed me to gain diverse perspectives on complex topics like project closure and requirement management. My peers shared practical insights from real world project which enlightened my aspects.
Challenges Faced:
There are few challenges I encountered while studying these topics. Firstly, it felt challenging on how to allocate proper time to the project closure activities so that we have enough of time for the documentation and archiving of data. Next, the selecting of a correct SDLC method for various projects could differ and might be confusing in real life scenarios.Frequent changes in the management process could lead to extra work in the process and can be hectic for the team. Not being efficient in Tracking changes and lack of proper communication can surely lead to a challenging environment. Checking on the quality gates without well-defined checks can lead to slowing down of the project with a lot of rework in the previous cycles.
Personal development activities:
As for my personal development with these topics on project closure, SDLC models and Requirement management, I read various articles about Agile Projects to deepen my knowledge over the methodologies to use it effectively. I laid research on requirement management activities and how to run it effectively during the project with examples considering its usage and implications.I indulged myself into learning more about requirement gathering techniques as it plays a crucial role in managing the project effectively. This helped me to have a practical approach experience that can later help me practically while I am working in any industry. It also helped me clarify few parts of challenges mentioned earlier. I have experienced significant personal growth as a learner, particularly in my ability to engage with complex concepts and apply them to real-world situations. I have seen illuminating development of my aspect with Project Closure, SDLC methodologies for various projects and Requirement Management techniques.
Objectives for the upcoming week: 
For this upcoming week, I want to deep dive more into real world projects and the techniques of archiving data from projects for future uses and doing a perfect requirement management. As maintaining proper documentation of data is really very helpful in upcoming projects in the industry, it becomes important to have a solid foundation over the area. Data collection must be given a significant understanding.Also to strengthen my foundation over the practical areas of requirement gathering and managing, I intend to join and experience few more workshops and activities over the internet. I am also looking forward on develop more understanding on the uses of Quality Gates and implementing it in any project stepwise as for some practices.
