Student Name: Riya Gupta (ID: 40292903)
Course: SOEN 6841 Software Project Management
Journal URL: https://github.com/Riyaguptacse/soen6841journal/new/main
Dates Rage of activities: 06 October 2024 - 02 November 2024
Date of the journal: 02 November, 2024
Key Concepts: The professor has been teaching us about software project planning, project monitoring, and project control in the last several classes. Both lectures cover several crucial subjects, including thorough software project planning, with a focus on work breakdown structures (WBS), resource allocation, and scheduling strategies like top-down and bottom-up planning to establish task dependencies and realistic project timetables. It is emphasized that efficient resource allocation is essential for matching assignments to the appropriate talents and minimizing inefficiencies. Tools like Earned Value Management are essential for recording schedule and budget deviations from baseline plans in project monitoring and control, allowing project managers to make necessary corrections.These chapters collectively highlight how effective time, money, and resource management in software projects requires a systematic, flexible approach to planning and control.
Application in Real Projects:: Project feasibility assessments will be enhanced by structured planning and control mechanisms as they are implemented in practice. Timelines and cost estimations become precise as a result. A work breakdown structure (WBS), for instance, can be used early in a project to better allocate resources and identify possible job dependencies. For continuing projects, value management (EVM) is particularly helpful. Budget overruns can be addressed faster than normal by comparing anticipated and actual expenses. Additionally, project managers have a range of approaches to handling deviations when corrective action is flexible. 
Peer Interactions: The most beneficial aspect for a student is when the lecturer interacts with the class. I occasionally feel like I don't grasp some things, and the lecturer helps me to have my questions answered. I had some trouble understanding the Earned Value Management method during class, so I asked the lecturer about it, and she gave me detailed explanations.
Challenges Faced:There are few challenges I encountered while studying these topics. Firstly, EVM being a powerful tool for estimation of project performance but in real world applications it can be difficult with calculations of complex projects. For projects with a short duration of timelines, the work breakdown structure might pose a problem with the division of tasks. 
Personal development activities:As for my personal development with these topics on project planning, control and monitoring, I researched various scenarios on WBS and EVM and real-timed projects where it was successfully implemented with clarity. It helped me to understand the calculations of costs and scheduling timelines. I attended online workshops available on YouTube where discussions were led on these topics.I indulged myself into learning software tools like Trello which is being used for project scheduling, tracking progress, and managing resources. This helped me to have a hands-on experience that can later help me practically while I am working in any industry. It also helped me clarify few parts of challenges that I had mentioned earlier.
Objectives for the upcoming week: For this upcoming week, I want to deep dive more into real world projects and the techniques of planning and monitoring tools used. As it can be seen that planning is a very essential part of project activity and successful planning lead to successful software projects, I only target to make myself more and more better at understanding and planning software projects.On advancing my concept more monitoring and tracking project tasks, I need to devote more time to Trello and other project management tools to understand better of it. I need to see more practical scenarios of EVM and cost budgeting in general.Also, I have been continuing with my course in Certified Associate of Project Management(CAPM) and also undertook a Udemy course to understand it even better while preparing myself for the professional certification. 
